---
layout: post
title: "Work experience summary"
date: 2025-10-24
---

On the first day I watched a video about drawing out how to make toast, it was an interesting video and from it I learned about drawing out processes and programming as a whole being a graph process. As well as this I learned about mermaid diagrams which use logic to filter through, I applied the Panama consulate visa process to these mermaid diagrams which made a flowchart that shows the questions we would need to ask a person to find out what type of visa they require. I used a LLM to make the mermaid diagram. I asked for feedback and I found out that I was over complicating the process and that there were only 3 questions that we needed to ask to discover which type of visa a person requires. From this I learn how useful iterating on concepts are, when you make diagrams and have conversations about it and do this quickly you can improve your product repeatedly and this can be a quick process if you keep having these conversations. After this I started working on the first iteration of the visa checker, the first version was decent however it wasn't very useful if it was to be deployed, so I made another iteration with HTML pages for information. While this was good to have more information, as visa requirements update frequently this wouldn't be very effective as HTML syntax is very inconvenient to work with. So I worked on another iteration with markdown files for information. This iteration was better however it wasn't perfect as I wanted to break the main checker file into smaller pieces to be easier to maintain. Overall this taught me more about Github pages and CMS based on markdowns and also about a concept called prototype to throw away. There is a saying that when building something you should make one to throwaway because that lowers the pressure of having to make your first iteration "perfect" as you can learn from your first iteration. I also learned about designing with user in mind and maintainability as before this, what would often happen when coding with me is that I forget about having to maintain any of the products I make. As well as this not thinking about other people who don't own the project and how they are going to use my product. Overall this project helped me start thinking about these things. 

In conclusion this experience was a very rewarding and educating volunteer work experience and I will be able to apply the content I learned into future projects I make
